INTRANSITIVE VERB
3. (to be located) 
a. to be 
La casa está delante de la iglesia.~The house is in front of the church.
4. (in a place) 
a. to be 
No está en casa.~He's not home.
5. (in a state) 
a. to be 
Estoy tan cansada, necesito irme de vacaciones.~I am so tired, I need to go on vacation.
6. (in a state; used with "de") 
a. to be on (vacation, trip, call) 
Estaremos de vacaciones en Ecamuropa el verano entero.~We're going to be on vacation in Europe all summer long.
b. to be in (luck) 
¡Estás de suerte! Me queda un par en ese color.~You're in luck! I have one pair left in that color.
c. to be working as 
Está de recepcionista en lo que consigue un mejor trabajo.~He's working as a receptionist until he finds something better.
7. (to feel) 
a. to be 
Él está triste ahora que no tiene novia.~He is sad now that he doesn't have a girlfriend.
8. (to appear) 
a. to look 
¡Estás genial con las gafas nuevas!~You look great with your new glasses!
9. (to visit) 
a. to stay 
Gabriel está con su padre esta noche.~Gabriel is staying with his father tonight.
10. (to be done) 
a. to be ready 
La comida ya está, ¡comamos!~The food is ready, let's eat!
11. (to exist) 
a. to be 
Luego está el trabajo que queda por hacer.~Then there is the work that still needs to be done.
12. (to feel like; used with "para") 
a. to be in the mood 
No estoy para tus estupideces a estas horas.~I am not in the mood for your nonsense at this time of night.
13. (to come down with; used with "con") 
a. to have 
Está con gripe dese el lunes.~He's had the flu since Monday.
14. (to fit) 
a. to be 
¿Esta falda queda bien o está muy apretado?~Does this skirt look good or is it too tight?
15. (to be understood) 
a. no direct translation 
No quiero que camines [Subjunctive] sola por la noche, ¿está?~I don't want you walking alone at night, understood?
Nos encontraremos a las siete para ir al cine, ¿estamos?~We'll meet at seven to go to the movie, all right?
16. (to support; used with "por") 
a. to be in favor of 
Los estudiantes están por un aumento en ayuda financiera de parte de la universidad.~The students are in favor of the university providing more financial aid.
17. (to be in agreement; used with "con") 
a. to agree with 
Estoy con Ana Sofía; no quiero escuchar más peleas entre ustedes~I agree with Ana Sofía;I don't want to hear anymore fighting between the two of you.
18. (to indicate temperature; used with "a") 
a. to be 
¡El termómetro dice que está a 25 grados Fahrenheit pero que se siente como 6!~The thermometer says it's 25 degrees Fahrenheit out but that it feels like 6!
19. (to indicate dates; used with "a") 
a. to be 
Estamos a martes, 5 de enero.~It is Tuesday, January 5th.
20. (to indicate season; used with "en") 
a. to be 
Mientras el hemisferio norte está en invierno, el hemisferio sur está en verano.~It is winter in the Northern Hemisphere when it's summer in the Southern Hemisphere.
21. (to indicate distance; used with "a") 
a. to be 
El banco está a tres cuadras de la plaza central.~The bank is three blocks from the central square.
22. (to express that something is yet to be known; used with "por" and infinitive) 
a. to remain to be 
Está por verse si lloverá en la tarde.~It remains to be seen whether it will rain this afternoon.
23. (to indicate imminence; used with "por" and infinitive) 
a. to be going to 
Las nubes en la distancia indican que estará por llover esta noche.~The clouds in the distance indicate that it is going to rain tonight.
24. (to negate; used with "sin" and infinitive) 
a. no direct translation 
Estoy sin comer desde temprano en la mañana.~I haven't eaten anything since early this morning.
Tengo tres libros que están sin terminar.~There are three books that I have yet to finish reading.