INTRANSITIVE VERB
1. (to exit) 
a. to go out 
Usa el ascensor para salir.~Take the elevator to go out.
b. to leave 
Jake salió pero dijo que nos encontraría para almorzar.~Jake left but said he would meet us for lunch.
c. to come out 
No salgas sin primero ponerte el abrigo y las botas.~Don't come out without first putting on your coat and boots.
d. to get out 
Si no sales de la piscina ya, estarás castigado.~If you don't get out of the pool right now, you're grounded.
2. (to depart) 
a. to leave 
El tren está a punto de salir.~The train is about to leave.
b. to set off 
¿Listos para salir, muchachos?~Ready to set off, guys?
3. (to date) 
a. to go out 
Rosie y Evan llevan años saliendo.~Rosie and Evan have been going out for years.
4. (to do activities outside the house) 
a. to go out 
Salgamos este fin de semana.~Let's go out this weekend.
5. (to result) 
a. to turn out 
Las cosas no siempre salen como se espera.~Things don't always turn out as expected.
b. to go 
¿Cómo salió todo en la junta?~How did everything go in the meeting?
c. to work out 
Al final de todo, las cosas me salieron bien.~In the end, everything worked out well for me.
6. (to originate; often used with "de") 
a. to come from 
El éxito sale del trabajo duro.~Success comes from hard work.
7. (to come into sight) 
a. to rise 
Subimos a la cima para ver el sol saliendo sobre las montañas.~We hiked to the summit to see the sun rise over the mountains.
b. to come out 
Mira ese avión que va saliendo de la tormenta.~Look at that plane that's coming out of the storm.
c. to come up 
Cuando salió la luna, las brujas empezaron a bailar.~When the moon came up, the witches began to dance.
d. to come through (teeth) 
La nena está llorando porque le están saliendo los dientes.~The baby is crying because her teeth are coming through.
e. to appear 
Salió una gotera en el techo.~A leak appeared in the ceiling.
8. (to sprout) 
a. to come up 
Mira, en el jardín salieron unos narcisos.~Look, some daffodils came up in the garden.
b. to put out 
Al manzano le salieron unas flores.~The apple tree put out some flowers.
9. (to wash off) 
a. to come out 
Las manchas de tinta a veces salen con alcohol.~Ink stains often come out with alcohol.
10. (computing) 
a. to exit 
Para salir del programa, pulsa "Esc".~To exit the program press "Esc."
11. (figurative) (to crop up) 
a. to arise 
Este problema salió por la falta de atención a los detalles.~This problem arose because of a lack of attention to detail.
b. to come up 
Salieron muchas preguntas en la sesión de repaso para el examen.~Many questions came up in the exam review session.
12. (to be done with) 
a. to finish 
¿A qué hora sales de trabajar los viernes?~What time do you finish work on Fridays?
13. (to make it through) 
a. to come through 
Salimos bien del huracán gracias a la ayuda de nuestros vecinos.~We came through the hurricane all right thanks to our neighbors.
b. to come out 
No sé cómo salieron de ese apuro.~I don't know how they came out of that fix.
c. to get out 
Tres soldados salieron del enfrentamiento sin heridas.~Three soldiers got out of the confrontation without injuries.
14. (to turn up) 
a. to come along 
Cuando sale una oportunidad así, hay que actuar.~When an opportunity like this comes along, you have to act.
15. (to jut out) 
a. to stick out 
A ese caballo le salen un buen los dientes.~That's horse's teeth really stick out.
16. (to be made public) 
a. to come out 
Ya salió la nueva temporada de mi programa favorito.~The new season of my favorite show just came out.
17. (film, theater, television; used with "de") 
a. to play 
Carey sale de Ofelia en la nueva producción de "Hamlet".~Carey plays Ophelia in the new production of "Hamlet."
18. (colloquial) (to come out with; used with "con") 
a. to tell 
Y luego que me sale con que no quiere ir de vacaciones conmigo.~And then he tells me doesn't want to go on vacation with me.
b. to say 
No puedes ir al tribunal y salir con todo ese rollo de un fantasma.~You can't go to court and say all this business about a ghost.
19. (to get a result) 
a. to do 
¡No me sale esta tarea!~I can't do this homework!
b. to get 
Me salió 5. - Tienes que sumar, no restar.~I got 5. - You have to add, not subtract.
20. (to end in; used with "a") 
a. to come out on 
Esta avenida sale a Zaragoza.~This avenue comes out on Zaragoza.
b. to lead to 
¿A dónde sale esa calle empedrada?~Where does that cobblestone street lead to?
21. (to look like; used with "a") 
a. to take after 
Mi hijo salió a su abuelo.~My son takes after his grandfather.
22. (to be worth) 
a. to cost 
Esta camisa te sale en 5 pesos.~This shirt costs 5 pesos.
b. to work out to be 
Esa maleta salió bien barata.~That suitcase worked out to be really cheap.
23. (games) 
a. to lead 
Esta vez le toca salir, Sr. Bond.~This time you lead, Mr. Bond.
