TRANSITIVE VERB
1. (to possess) 
a. to have 
Tengo tres coches.~I have three cars.
b. to have got 
Mary tiene una casa en el campo.~Mary's got a house in the country.
2. (to be carrying) 
a. to have 
¿Tienes efectivo?~Do you have cash?
b. to have got 
¿Tienen sus pasaportes?~Have you got your passports?
3. (used to express characteristics) 
a. to have 
Tiene los ojos verdes.~She has green eyes.
b. to have got 
Susana tiene el cabello oscuro.~Susana's got dark hair.
4. (to wear) 
a. to have 
La chica que busco tiene lentes de sol y una bufanda.~The girl I'm looking for has sunglasses and a scarf.
b. to have on 
¿Por qué tiene zapatos tu perro?~Why does your dog have shoes on?
5. (used to express age) 
a. to be 
Mi hermana tiene 33 años.~My sister is 33 years old.
6. (to have planned) 
a. to have 
El lunes tengo una cita con el dentista.~I have a dentist appointment on Monday.
b. to have got 
Mañana tenemos junta en la tarde.~We've got a meeting tomorrow afternoon.
7. (to feel) 
a. to be 
Si tienes frío, ponte un abrigo.~If you are cold, put on a coat.
8. (to be ill with) 
a. to have 
Mi hijo tiene sarampión.~My child has measles.
9. (to grasp or carry) 
a. to hold 
Ten la bandeja.~Hold the tray.
b. to take 
Ten esta caja, por favor.~Take this box, please.
c. no direct translation 
Tengan sus boletos.~Here are your tickets.
Ten tu bolsa.~Here is your bag.
10. (to measure) 
a. to be 
Esta maleta tiene 20 centímetros de ancho.~This suitcase is 20 centimeters wide.
11. (to give birth to) 
a. to have 
Mi perra tuvo seis cachorros.~My dog had six puppies.
12. (to receive) 
a. to have 
Todavía no tuve el correo electrónico de confirmación de la empresa.~I haven't had a confirmation email from the company yet.
13. (used with a participle to describe a state) 
a. to have 
Tenía la casa recogida cuando llegué.~He had the house cleaned up by the time I arrived.
14. (used to describe a possibility) 
a. to have 
Realmente no tiene solución este problema.~This problem really has no solution.
15. (to think of) 
a. to consider 
Siempre tuve a Rodolfo por honesto.~I've always considered Rodolfo to be honest.
16. (used to indicate duration) (Latin America) 
a. no direct translation 
Tengo dos años sin verlo.~I haven't seen him for two years.
Mis abuelos tienen 40 años de casados.~My grandparents have been married for 40 years.
AUXILIARY VERB
17. (used to indicate an obligation; used with "que") 
a. to have to 
Tengo que terminar mis deberes antes de salir a la fiesta.~I have to finish my homework before going to the party.
b. must 
Tienes que comer todo en tu plato si quieres postre.~You must eat everything on your plate if you want dessert.
18. (used to indicate supposition; used with "que") 
a. must 
¡Tienes que tener calor con tanta ropa puesta!~You must be hot with so many clothes on!
19. (used to indicate a reproach; used with "que") 
a. should 
Tenías que haberme marcado antes de salir.~You should have called me before leaving.
20. (before past participle) 
a. no direct translation 
Tengo pensado ir al mercado mañana.~I think I'll go to the market tomorrow.
Tenemos entendido que piensas dejar la escuela.~We understand that you're thinking of leaving school.
21. (before adjective) 
a. to make 
La noticia sobre el huracán me tiene muy nervioso.~The news about the hurricane is making me nervous.