TRANSITIVE VERB
1. (to propel)
a. to throw
Si tiras una moneda al pozo, puedes pedir un deseo~If you throw a coin in the well, you can make a wish.
2. (to get rid of)
a. to throw away
Tengo que tirar todos estos trastos~I have to throw away all this junk.
3. (to use inefficiently)
a. to waste
Comprar productos de mala calidad es tirar el dinero~Buying bad quality products is wasting your money.
b. to squander
Los humanos están tirando todos los recursos del planeta~Humans are squandering the planet's resources.
4. (to pull down)
a. to knock down
Van a tirar la antigua central eléctrica~The old power plant is going to be knocked down.
b. to knock over
Dejen de empujar, van a tirar la mesa~Stop pushing; you are going to knock the table over.
5. (to discharge)
a. to fire
El ejército tiró un cohete desde su base~The army fired a rocket from the base.
b. to drop
Tiraron muchas bombas sobre la capital enemiga~Many bombs were dropped on the enemy's capital.
c. to shoot
Tiré la flecha y le di a la diana~I shot the arrow and hit the bullseye.
d. to launch
Mi padre tiró fuegos artificiales en Año Nuevo~My father launched fireworks on New Year's Eve.
6. (photography)
a. to take
Tiré muchas fotos durante mis vacaciones~I took a lot of pictures during my vacation.
7. (printing)
a. to print
Han tirado diez mil ejemplares de la novela~They have printed ten thousand copies of the novel.
b. to run off
La editorial tiró mil ejemplares de mi libro~The publisher ran off a thousand copies of my book.
8. (to trace)
a. to draw
El arquitecto tiró una línea recta con una regla~The architect drew a straight line with a ruler.
9. (to attack)
a. no direct translation
No le tire patadas a su hermano~Don't kick your brother.
Su perro me tiró un mordisco~His dog snapped at me.
INTRANSITIVE VERB
10. (to draw nearer)
a. to pull
No empujes la puerta, tira para abrirla~Don't push the door; pull to open it.
11. (to attract)
a. no direct translation
No le tira estudiar medicina~He is not interested in studying medicine.
Las fiestas ya no me tiran~Parties don't appeal to me anymore.
12. (to be taut)
a. to be tight
Esta falda me tira en la cadera, me compraré una talla más grande~This skirt is tight at the hip; I will buy a bigger size.
13. (to fire)
a. to shoot
Tenían órdenes de tirar a matar~Their orders were to shoot to kill.
14. (sports)
a. to shoot
Un jugador de nuestro equipo tiró y marcó un gol~A player on our team shot and scored a goal.
b. to throw
Tras recibir un pase, el jugador tiró desde la línea de tres puntos sin éxito~After catching a pass, the player threw from the three-point line unsuccessfully.
15. (to work)
a. to pull
Mi coche ya no tira como antes, creo que ha llegado el momento de comprar uno nuevo~My car doesn't pull like it used to; I think it's time to buy a new one.
b. to draw
Tienes que tirar al encender el cigarro~You have to draw when you light the cigarette.
16. (to survive)
a. to get by
Tenemos que tirar con muy poco hasta que cobre~We have to get by with very little until payday.
17. (to move forward)
a. to go
Para llegar a la panadería, tire por esta calle hasta el cruce~To get to the bakery, go down this street up to the crossing.
18. (to tend)
a. no direct translation
El plato tiraba a dulce más que nada~The dish was more sweet than anything else.
Tienes que beberte el té cuando esté tirando a frío~You have to drink the tea when it is cooling down.
19. (vulgar) (to have sexual intercourse) (Latin America)
a. to screw (vulgar)
Ese hombre solo piensa en tirar~That guy only ever thinks about screwing.
