TRANSITIVE VERB
1. (to perceive with the eyes) 
a. to see 
¿Quieres ver mi carro nuevo?~Do you want to see my new car?
2. (to observe) 
a. to watch 
Se sentaron en el sofá a ver su programa de televisión favorito.~They sat on the sofa to watch their favorite television program.
b. to look at 
Me gusta ir a ver los cuadros en el museo.~I like to go look at paintings in the museum.
3. (to notice) 
a. to see 
¿Tu ves la diferencia entre esta camisa y la azul?~Do you see the difference between this shirt and the blue one?
4. (to verify) 
a. to see 
Ve a ver quién está en la puerta.~Go see who's at the door.
b. to check 
Tengo que ver cuánto dinero tengo en el banco.~I have to see how much money I have in the bank.
5. (to be witness to) 
a. to see 
Este campo vio la muerte de muchos durante la guerra.~This field saw the death of many during the war.
b. to witness 
Esta ciudad ha visto tiempos buenos y malos.~This city has witnessed good times and bad.
c. to live through 
Mi abuelo ha visto cuatro guerras y sigue siendo optimista.~My grandfather has lived through four wars, and he's still an optimist.
6. (to recognize) 
a. to see 
No le veo nada de chistoso en esto.~I don't see anything funny about this.
7. (to comprehend) 
a. to see 
¿Ves lo que te digo?~Do you see what I'm saying?
b. to understand 
No veo por qué tengo que trabajar.~I don't understand why I have to work.
8. (to picture) 
a. to see 
No la veo viviendo en otro país.~I can't see her living in another country.
b. to imagine 
Todavía los puedo ver como si fuera ayer.~I can still imagine you guys like it was yesterday.
9. (to meet) 
a. to see 
Voy a ver al doctor esta tarde.~I'm going to see the doctor this afternoon.
b. to meet with 
Tienes que ver al cliente mañana.~You have to meet with the client tomorrow.
10. (legal) 
a. to hear 
Tu caso se verá en el tribunal el mes entrante.~Your case will be heard in court next month.
b. to try 
El caso de la Mataviejitas será visto en el capital.~The case of the Old Lady Killer will be tried in the capital.
11. (to study) 
a. to see 
El semestre que viene veremos el impacto de las empresas sobre el medioambiente.~Next semester we will see the impact of companies on the environment.
INTRANSITIVE VERB
12. (to perceive with the eyes) 
a. to see 
Amanecí esta mañana y no pude ver.~I woke up this morning and I couldn't see.
13. (to observe) 
a. to watch 
Mamá, ¡ve! Puedo manejar el carro yo solito.~Mom, watch! I can drive the car all by myself.
14. (to verify) 
a. to see 
¿Tenemos papel sanitario? Déjame ver.~Do we have toilet paper? Let me see.
15. (to consider) 
a. to see 
¿Podemos ir a la playa mañana? - Vamos a ver.~Can we go to the beach tomorrow? - We'll see.
16. (to comprehend) 
a. to see 
¿Ya ves? - No, no veo. Explícame de nuevo la situación.~You see? - No, I don't see. Explain the situation to me again.
17. (to try; used with "de") 
a. to see about 
Vemos de arreglar el fregadero mañana.~We'll see about fixing the sink tomorrow.
MASCULINE NOUN
18. (appearance) 
a. no direct translation 
Ese actor no es de mal ver, pero a mí no me gusta.~That actor isn't bad-looking, but I don't find him attractive.
¿Cómo es tu prima? - Es inteligente, trabajadora, y además tiene buen ver.~What's your cousin like? - She's smart, hardworking, and she's also good-looking.
19. (opinion) 
a. view 
Bueno, en mi ver, la educación debe ser gratis para todos.~Well, in my view, education should be free for everyone.

